The process of testing the GitLab web application was educational and interesting task. It made me really appreciate the work of software testers. Although there are plenty of different test automation tools, the sheer volume of different test cases for even the simplest applications can be quite overwhelming.

I thought it was most logical to proceed through the testing assignment in the order of the one object template and test case at a time. At one occasion I went back to the previous page to add a missing variable. In my opinion, MS Visual Code is the most convenient and user-friendly environment for casual editing of test files. And as for other tools needed for the assignment, I was already familiar with using GitHub in the website development course (although I haven't had time to use it much). On the other hand, I was not familiar with the GitLab platform before. I also have had previous experience with the Robot Framework automation language, so using it also in test automation would certainly be the most natural and fastest for me to adopt.

It seems that the most important thing in automation testing right now is to master some common programming language used in it, like Python, and an automation framework like Robot Framework. In addition, CI tools such as Jenkins or Hudson would be good to manage. Software testing encompasses far more different tools and platforms than I would have imagined, and researching and learning the most commonly used ones is the first and most important task of anyone aspiring to this profession.

There is so much to learn in the fundamentals alone that applying the knowledge in practice would require more time and depth than can be learned within the scope of this exercise, but the task nevertheless gave some kind of insight into the practical implementation of manual testing.